[docs] Hasura and YB cloud (#9043)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/latest/yugabyte-cloud/develop/hasuracloud.md

---
title: Hasura Cloud
headerTitle: Connect Hasura Cloud to Yugabyte Cloud
linkTitle: Hasura Cloud
description: Connect Hasura Cloud to Yugabyte Cloud.
menu:
  latest:
    identifier: hasura-cloud
    parent: yugabyte-cloud
    weight: 700
isTocNested: true
showAsideToc: true
---

Use the [Hasura GraphQL Engine](https://hasura.io) with Yugabyte Cloud to power your GraphQL applications with a distributed SQL database.

> The following example demonstrates how to deploy an application on both Hasura Cloud and Yugabyte Cloud using the Hasura sample Realtime Poll application. This application was built using React and is powered by Hasura GraphQL Engine backed by a Yugabyte Cloud YugabyteDB cluster. It has an interface for users to cast a vote on a poll and the results are updated in the on-screen bar chart in real time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page demonstrates how to deploy an application on Hasura Cloud and Yugabyte Cloud using Hasura's Realtime Poll sample application. This application is built using React and is powered by Hasura GraphQL Engine backed by a Yugabyte Cloud YugabyteDB cluster. It has an interface for users to cast a vote on a poll, and results are updated in an on-screen bar chart in real time. 
```

## Prerequisites

> The example has the following prerequisites.

Reviewer: Since this is set up as sub-sections, you should probably add a mini-toc here.

(This whole pre-reqs section is bigger than it needs to be, but let's just work with the structure we have)

```suggestion
The example has the following prerequisites:

* [Yugabyte Cloud account with a free tier cluster](#yugabyte-cloud-account-and-free-tier-cluster)
* [Hasura Cloud account](#hasura-cloud-account)
* [Hasura CLI](#hasura-cli)
* [Realtime Poll application](#realtime-poll-application)
```

### Yugabyte Cloud account and Free Tier cluster

Sign up for Yugabyte Cloud on the [Sign Up page](https://cloud.yugabyte.com/register).

Once registered, create a Free Tier cluster by following the steps in [Create clusters](../../create-clusters/).

> The database cluster has a default database called `yugabyte` and administrator account called `admin` that we will use in our connection with our Hasura project. You will need the following cluster details:
> 
> * password
> * IP address
> * port number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cluster has a default database called `yugabyte`, and an administrator account called `admin`. You'll use these in your connection with the Hasura project. To connect, you'll need the `admin` account's password, and the cluster's IP address and port.
```

To get these details, in the Yugabyte Cloud Console:

1. Click **Go to cluster** to display the cluster console.

1. Click **Connect**.

1. **Copy** and save the details. These are provided in the form `PGPASSWORD=password ./bin/ysqlsh -h ip_address -p port -U admin -d yugabyte`, where password, ip_address, and port correspond to the values.

### Hasura Cloud account

To create a Hasura Cloud account, sign up at <https://cloud.hasura.io>.

> For details on using Hasura Cloud, see the [Hasura Cloud documentation](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/cloud/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details on using Hasura Cloud, refer to the [Hasura Cloud documentation](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/cloud/index.html).
```

### Hasura CLI

We will apply database migrations to our Hasura project using Hasura CLI v.2.0 Beta 2. To install Hasura CLI, refer to [Installing the Hasura CLI](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/graphql/core/hasura-cli/install-hasura-cli.html#install-hasura-cli).

Once installed, update to the v.2 Beta.

```sh
$ hasura update-cli --version v2.0.0-beta.2
```

### Realtime Poll application

The Realtime Poll application is available from the Yugabyte GraphQL Apps repo.

```sh

> $ git clone https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-graphql-apps
> cd yugabyte-graphql-apps/realtime-poll

Reviewer: If you show a prompt for one line, show it for both :)

```suggestion
$ git clone https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-graphql-apps
$ cd yugabyte-graphql-apps/realtime-poll
```

```

## Create a Hasura project and connect to YugabyteDB

To create a project in Hasura Cloud:

1. From the Hasura Cloud dashboard, under **Projects**, click **New Project**. 

> 1. Select **Free Tier**, leave the default region, and enter a project name of “yb-realtime-poll”.<br><br>

Reviewer: Putting the breaks on their own line just makes them easier to notice. And self-closing is good form :)
```suggestion
1. Select **Free Tier**, leave the default region, and enter a project name of “yb-realtime-poll”.

    <br/><br/>
```

    ![Create Hasura project](/images/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-create-project.png)<br><br>

    The project details are displayed. The domain for the project is `yb-realtime-poll.hasura.app`.

1. Click **Create project**.

1. Copy and save the **Admin Secret**.

    The **Admin Secret** is used when setting up the application.

1. Click **Launch Console**.

    This displays the Hasura Cloud console for the project.

1. In the Hasura Cloud console, click the **Data** tab.

> 1. Under **Connect Existing Database**, enter the following details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Under **Connect Existing Database**, enter the following details:
```

    * **Database Display Name**: yb-realtime-polldb
    * **Data Source Driver**: PostgreSQL
    * **Connect Database Via**: Database URL

1. Set the **Database URL** using the password, IP address, and port from your Yugabyte Cloud cluster connection info, recorded earlier.

    The Database URL is in the form `postgresql://admin:password@ip_address:port/yugabyte`.

>     For example, `postgresql://admin:59jh2hj@35.217.31.152:21301/yugabyte`.<br><br>

Reviewer: breaks on their own line

>     ![Connect Hasura database](/images/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-cloud-connect-database.png)<br><br>

Reviewer: don't need the breaks here
```suggestion
    ![Connect Hasura database](/images/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-cloud-connect-database.png)
```

1. Click **Connect Database** and wait for confirmation that the database has connected.

1. Click **View Database**. The schema will be empty.

## Set up Realtime Poll and apply migrations

> On your machine, navigate to the `hasura` directory in the sample application directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On your local machine, navigate to the `hasura` directory in the sample application directory.
```

Reviewer: Also, are you deliberately not numbering these steps?

```sh
$ cd realtime-poll/hasura
```

Edit the `config.yaml` file by changing the following parameters:

> * set `endpoint` to `https://yb-realtime-poll.hasura.app`.
> * set `admin_secret` to the **Admin Secret** you copied from the Hasura Cloud project dashboard.

Reviewer: Initial caps
```suggestion
* Set `endpoint` to `https://yb-realtime-poll.hasura.app`
* Set `admin_secret` to the **Admin Secret** you copied from the Hasura Cloud project dashboard
```

## Configure the Hasura project

Return to the **Data** tab in the Hasura Cloud project console. The tables from your application are now listed under **Untracked tables or views**.

Click **Track All** and **OK** to confirm to allow the tables to be exposed over the GraphQL API.

Once the console refreshes, **Untracked foreign-key relationships** lists the relationships.

Click **Track All** and **OK** to confirm to allow the relationships to be exposed over the GraphQL API.

Add a new Array relationship for the `poll_results` table as follows:

1. Select the `poll_results` table.

1. Select the **Relationships** tab.

1. Under **Add a new relationship manually**, click **Configure**.

1. Set the following options:

    * Set **Relationship Type** to Array Relationship.
    * In the **Relationship Name** field, enter option.
    * Set **Reference Schema** to public.
    * Set **Reference Table** to option.
    * Set **From** to `poll_id` and **To** to `poll_id`.<br><br>

    ![Connect Hasura database](/images/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-cloud-relationships-add.png)<br><br>

1. Click **Save**.

> ## Configure Realtime Poll 

Reviewer: Seems like this step would be better if it came after (or was part of) the "Set up Realtime Poll and apply migrations" section.

Reviewer: Then you could call that section "Set up and configure Realtime Poll"

On your machine, navigate to the `src` directory in the sample application directory.

```sh
$ cd realtime-poll/src
```

Edit the `apollo.js` file by changing the following parameters:

* set the `HASURA_GRAPHQL_ENGINE_HOSTNAME` const to `yb-realtime-poll.hasura.app`.
* set the `hasura_secret` variable to the **Admin Secret** you copied from the Hasura Cloud project dashboard.

## Run Realtime Poll

To run the Realtime Poll application, navigate to the application root (`realtime-poll`) directory and run the following commands:

```sh

> $ npm install 

Reviewer: How long does the `npm install` take? If it's a while, you may want to add a note mentioning that it could take a minute or two.

$ npm start
```

> Realtime Poll starts on http://localhost:3000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Realtime Poll starts on <http://localhost:3000>.
```

> Open a separate tab, navigate to http://localhost:3000, and cast a vote for React. The chart updates automatically using GraphQL Subscriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a second browser tab, navigate to <http://localhost:3000>, and cast a vote for React. The chart updates automatically using GraphQL Subscriptions.
```

> ![Connect Hasura database](/images/deploy/yugabyte-cloud/hasura-realtime-poll.png)

Reviewer: Seems like incorrect alt text
